_Exercise 2.9: Explain the following definitions. For those that are illegal,_  
_explain what’s wrong and how to correct it._  
1. **std::cin >> int input_value;**  
    Illegal, object must be declared before assigned.  

2. **int i = { 3.14 };**  
    Illegal, bracket initalization will complain about narrowing conversion.  

3. **double salary = wage = 9999.99;**  
    Illegal, attempting to assign salary to an undeclared variable, wage.  

4. **int i = 3.14;**  
    Legal, but int value will be truncated to 3.

_Exercise 2.10: What are the initial values, if any, of each of the following_  
_variables?_  
```
std::string global_str;
int global_int;
int main()
{
    int local_int;
    std::string local_str;
}
```  
`global_str` and `global_int` will be initialized to values dictated by their types, probably the empty string and zero.  
`local_int` and `local_str` will be uninitialized as they are within a function.

_Exercise 2.11: Explain whether each of the following is a declaration or a_  
_definition:_  
1. **extern int ix = 1024;**
    Declaration and definition, `extern` is overridden.

2. **int iy;**  
    Declaration and definition.  

3. **extern int iz;**  
    Declaration only.

_Exercise 2.12: Which, if any, of the following names are invalid?_  
```
(a) int double = 3.14;
(b) int _;
(c) int catch-22;
(d) int 1_or_2 = 1;
(e) double Double = 3.14;
```
(a) is valid.  
(b) is valid **only in a function**.  
**(c) is invalid** because it uses a hyphen.  
**(d) is invalid** because it starts with a digit.  
(e) is valid, but **not conventional**.  

_Exercise 2.13: What is the value of j in the following program?_  
```
int i = 42;
int main()
{
    int i = 100;
    int j = i;
}
```
`j` has a value of 100.  
Obtaining the value of global `i` would require using `::i`.

_Exercise 2.14: Is the following program legal? If so, what values are_  
_printed?_  
```
int i = 100, sum = 0;
for (int i = 0; i != 10; ++i)
    sum += i;
std::cout << i << " " << sum << std::endl;
```  
Yes, it is legal. `i` will have a value of 100, `sum` will have a value of 45 (1+2+3+4+5+6+7+8+9).

_Exercise 2.15: Which of the following definitions, if any, are invalid? Why?_  
1. `int ival = 1.01;`  
    Valid, but value will be truncated.  

2. `int &rval1 = 1.01;`  
    **Invalid**, reference can't be bound to a literal.

3. `int &rval2 = ival;`  
    Valid.  

4. `int &rval3;`  
    **Invalid**, reference must be initialized.  

_Exercise 2.16: Which, if any, of the following assignments are invalid? If_  
_they are valid, explain what they do._  
`int i = 0, &r1 = i; double d = 0, &r2 = d;`  

1. `r2 = 3.14159;`  
    Valid, `d` is given a new value.  

2. `r2 = r1;`  
    Valid, `d` is given the value of `i`.  

3. `i = r2;`  
    Valid, `i` is given the value in `d`. Will be truncated.  

4. `r1 = d;`  
    Valid, same as the previous statement.  

_Exercise 2.17: What does the following code print?_  
```
int i, &ri = i;
i = 5; ri = 10;
std::cout << i << " " << ri << std::endl;
```  
The output would be `10 10`, since `ri` refers to `i` and most recently sets it to 10.
