### Exercise 2.19: Explain the key differences between pointers and references.

References are not objects, they are only aliases of existing objects and can only be assigned once.

Pointers are objects that point to other objects, and can be reassigned endlessly.

### Exercise 2.20: What does the following program do?

```
int   i = 42;
int *p1 = &i;
*p1     = *p1 * *p1;
```

This code creates an integer, assigns the integer object to a pointer, and then uses the pointer to square the integer, reassigning the new value to the object using the pointer.

### Exercise 2.21: Explain each of the following definitions. Indicate whether any are illegal and, if so, why.

```
int i = 0;
```

1. **`double* dp = &i;`**  
    **Illegal**, assignment of a `double` address to an `int` pointer.

2. **`int *ip = i;`**  
    **Illegal**, assignment of a value to an `int` pointer.

3. **`int *p = &i;`**  
    Legal, assignment of an `int` address to an `int` pointer.


### Exercise 2.22: Assuming p is a pointer to int, explain the following code:

```
if (p) // ...
if (*p) // ...
```
The first `if` statement is `false` if the pointer is null (=0), `true` if any other value.  
The second `if` statement is `false` if the `int` value is zero, and `true` if the `int` is any other value.  


### Exercise 2.23: Given a pointer p, can you determine whether p points to a valid object? If so, how? If not, why not?

We need to know whether a pointer is valid before we try to access its object, as accessing an invalid pointer, a null pointer, or a pointer just past the supposed object is undefined.

### Exercise 2.24: Why is the initialization of p legal but that of lp illegal?

```
int   i  = 42;
void *p  = &i;
long *lp = &i;
```

Initialization of `p` is legal because the `void*` pointer can take any type.  
Initialization of `lp` is illegal because `long` isn't the same type as `int`.


### Exercise 2.25: Determine the types and values of each of the following variables.

1. **`int* ip, &r = ip;`**
    `ip` is an undefined pointer to an integer object, `r` is a reference to the pointer.  

2. **`int i, *ip = 0;`**  
    `i` is an undefined integer object, `ip` is a null pointer to an integer.  

3. **`int* ip, ip2;`**  
    `ip` is an undefined pointer to an integer, `ip2` is an undefined pointer.  


### Exercise 2.26: Which of the following are legal? For those that are illegal, explain why.

1. **`const int buf;`**  
    **Illegal**, constants must be defined when they are declared and wihtout `extern`.  

2. **`int cnt = 0;`**  
    Legal definition of an integer variable.  

3. **`const int sz = cont;`**  
    Legal definition of an integer constant, value is copied into constant.  

4. **`++cnt; ++sz;`**  
    **Illegal**, trying to operate on a constant will throw an error.  


### Exercise 2.27: Which of the following initializations are legal? Explain Why.  

1. **`int i = -1, &r = 0;`**  
    **Illegal**, non-`const` references can't bind to static values (or, converted to temp values as done here).

2. **`int *const p2 = &i2;`**  
    Legal definition of a constant pointer whose contained address can't be changed (assuming `int i2` is in scope).  

3. **`const int i = -1, &r = 0;`**  
    Legal, the `const` qualifier applies to both the int and reference definitions, and `const` references to static values are allowed.  

4. **`const int *const p3 = &i2;`**  
    Legal definition of a constant pointer containing an unchangeable address to a constant integer (assuming `int i2` is in scope and `const`).

5. **`const int *p1 = &i2;`**  
    Legal definition of a pointer with a changeable address to constant integer values (assuming `int i2` is in scope and `const`).  

6. **`const int &const r2;`**  
    **Illegal**, references cannot be undefined and don't need `const` qualifier (as in, `&const`) since they are unchangeable anyway.  

7. **`const int i2 = i, &r = i;`**  
    Legal definition of an unchanging integer value and a reference bound to that value (assuming `int i` is in scope).


### Exercise 2.28: Explain the following definitions. Identify any that are illegal.  

1. **`int i, *const cp;`**  
    **Illegal** second half of statement: top-level constant pointer must be initialized with a value, would otherwise create a top-level constant pointer to a changeable integer object. First half creates a valid integer variable (not constant).  

2. **`int *p1, *const p2;`**  
    **Illegal** second half, same as #1. First half creates a valid uninitialized integer pointer (not constant).  

3. **`const int ic, &r = ic;`**  
    **Illegal** first half, constant integer must be initialized with a value. If it were, the second half would be valid as references are already constant.  

4. **`const int *const p3;`**  
    **Illegal**, top-level constant pointer must be initialized with a value. First `const` would refer to the pointer's low-level eligibility to point to constant integer values, the second `const` (after the `*`) would make the pointer itself top-level constant and unchangeable --- and so requires an initial value.  

5. **`const int *p;`**  
    Legal definition of a low-level constant pointer, eligible to point to constant integers.  


### Exercise 2.29: Using the variables in the previous exercise, which of the following assignments are legal? Explain why.  

1. **`i = ic;`**  
    Legal copy of a constant integer into a variable integer.  

2. **`p1 = p3;`**  
    **Illegal**. Copying the address from the constant pointer `p3` is okay, but `p1` (per _2.28.2_) isn't "low-level constant" qualified to point to constant integers.  

3. **`p1 = &ic;`**  
    **Illegal**, `p1` isn't qualified to point to constant integers (see previous question), which is `ic` per _2.28.3_.  

4. **`p3 = &ic;`**  
    **Illegal**; even assuming `p3` was initialized properly (see _2.28.4_), its contained address cannot be changed because it's a top-level constant pointer. However, this assignment would be legal if performed at `p3`'s initialization since `p3` is qualified "low-level constant" to point to constant integers, and `ic` is a constant integer.  

5. **`p2 = p1;`**  
    **Illegal**, assuming `p2` were properly initialized earlier. Legal if performed at `p2`'s initialization since `p2` is a constant pointer to a variable integer, and `p1` points to a variable integer.  

6. **`ic = *p3;`**  
    **Illegal** attempt to change a top-level constant pointer. However, this would be legal if `p3` were previously defined correctly to pointing to a constant integer, this statement was performed during `ic`'s intilization: constant `ic` would be receiving the dereferenced value stored in the constant integer object pointed to by `p3`.

Testcode from _2.28_ and _2.29_, modified to be legal:  
``` c++
int main() {
    int i, *const cp = nullptr;
    int *p1, *const p2 = p1;
    const int j = 0;
    const int *const p3 = &j;
    const int ic = *p3, &r = ic;
    const int *p;

    i = ic;
    // p1 = p3;
    // p1 = &ic;
    // p3 = &ic;
    // p2 = p1;
    // ic = *p3;
}
```


### Exercise 2.30: For each of the following declarations indicate whether the object being declared has top-level or low-level const.  

1. **`const int v2 = 0;`**  
    Top-level const (integer object).  

2. **`int v1 = v2;`**  
    No const, integer value is copied into non-const integer object.  

3. **`int *p1 = &v1, &r1 = v1;`**  
    `p1` has no const, `r1` has top-level const because it is a reference.  

4. **`const int *p2 = &v2, *const p3 = &i, &r2 = v2;`**  
    `p2` has low-level const but contains a changeable address (though initialized to contain an address to a const int).  
    `p3` has top-level const and low-level const (`i` doesn't have to be const).  
    `r2` has top-level const (because it's a reference) and low-level const (to a const int).  


### Exercise 2.31: Given the declarations in the previous exercise determine whether the following assignments are legal. Explain how the top-level or low-level const applies in each case.  

1. **`r1 = v2;`**  
    Legal, integer value copied from `v2` (top-level const, ignored) into `v1` (no const) via `r1` (top-level const ref, observed).

2. **`p1 = p2;`**  
    **Illegal**, `p2` is low-level const; top-level const address cannot be contained in `p1` which doesn't have low-level const.

3. **`p1 = p3;`**  
    **Illegal**, address of const int object in `p3` (top-level const, ignored for copy attempt; low-level const, observed) is not supported in `p1` (no const).

4. **`p2 = p1;`**  
    Legal, `p2` is low-level const, but still able to be bound to the address in (no const) `p1`.

5. **`p2 = p3;`**  
    Legal, `p2` is low-level const and can bind to const int object addresses, which might be contained in `p3`(top-level const, ignored for copy; low-level const, observed).


### Exercise 2.32: Is the following code legal or not? If not, how might it become legal?  

``` c++
int null = 0, *p = null;
```

This code is **Illegal**. `null` is not a Keyword in C++, so it can be an (confusing) identifier. The problem is trying to assign an int address to a pointer without the reference (`&`) operator (i.e., `int *p = &null;`). However, if the intention was actually to initialize `p` to null, this should instead be done by assigning directly to zero (`0`) or by using the `nullptr` Keyword.