### Exercise 2.19: Explain the key differences between pointers and references.

References are not objects, they are only aliases of existing objects and can only be assigned once.

Pointers are objects that point to other objects, and can be reassigned endlessly.

### Exercise 2.20: What does the following program do?

```
int   i = 42;
int *p1 = &i;
*p1     = *p1 * *p1;
```

This code creates an integer, assigns the integer object to a pointer, and then uses the pointer to square the integer, reassigning the new value to the object using the pointer.

### Exercise 2.21: Explain each of the following definitions. Indicate whether any are illegal and, if so, why.

```
int i = 0;
```

1. **`double* dp = &i;`**  
    **Illegal**, assignment of a `double` address to an `int` pointer.

2. **`int *ip = i;`**  
    **Illegal**, assignment of a value to an `int` pointer.

3. **`int *p = &i;`**  
    Legal, assignment of an `int` address to an `int` pointer.


### Exercise 2.22: Assuming p is a pointer to int, explain the following code:

```
if (p) // ...
if (*p) // ...
```
The first `if` statement is `false` if the pointer is null (=0), `true` if any other value.  
The second `if` statement is `false` if the `int` value is zero, and `true` if the `int` is any other value.  


### Exercise 2.23: Given a pointer p, can you determine whether p points to a valid object? If so, how? If not, why not?

We need to know whether a pointer is valid before we try to access its object, as accessing an invalid pointer, a null pointer, or a pointer just past the supposed object is undefined.

### Exercise 2.24: Why is the initialization of p legal but that of lp illegal?

```
int   i  = 42;
void *p  = &i;
long *lp = &i;
```

Initialization of `p` is legal because the `void*` pointer can take any type.  
Initialization of `lp` is illegal because `long` isn't the same type as `int`.


### Exercise 2.25: Determine the types and values of each of the following variables.

1. **`int* ip, &r = ip;`**
    `ip` is an undefined pointer to an integer object, `r` is a reference to the pointer.  

2. **`int i, *ip = 0;`**  
    `i` is an undefined integer object, `ip` is a null pointer to an integer.  

3. **`int* ip, ip2;`**  
    `ip` is an undefined pointer to an integer, `ip2` is an undefined pointer.  